Matara is a place in Sri Lanka as it is precisely situated in the Southern area of the city of Colombo. The sea view of the city is spectacular and it is beautifully presented with the glamorous look. It extends to a good half a mile in distance and there are not many beaches with so many beautiful shady zones and trees.
But Matara is a zone with much of green and shady areas that add to its aesthetic beauty a lot. Many people and tourists who travel to the beach opt for the maps as they sometimes find it hard to locate the Polhena beach located in Matara.<br><br>
There are many beaches all across Sri Lanka but Polhena beach presents a mesmerizing view to its viewers and tourists. The travel guides also contain extra information on the beach and can be seen by many individuals as a source of good visitor information.<br><br>
The Polhena Beach in Matara is about 2 km at a distance from the city center and the great thing about it is that any person can easily swim through the area as the sea water is fenced with the corals. This is done to protect and secure the tourists who are especially enjoying quality time with their families and friends, in Matara. Polhena Beach in Matara is also a great honeymoon location as there are many amazing areas and places to visit that are very romantic due to their classic look and feeling. Another great feature is that the Nilwala River flows through the city and directly falls into the sea at place of Totamuna. There is a beautiful island named as the Crow Island that is directly in front of the Polhena Beach in Matara. It also adds to the aesthetic appeal of the place as it is beautifully located and gives a spectacular look to the visitors who are fantasized by the beauty of this place. The greenery and beautiful trees enhance and overall appeal of the area.
The Matara city also comprises of many tall and beautiful buildings that are located in the commercial zone and honeymoon couples can visit the place for shopping and other purposes as it contains many traditional items and gives good quality time and memories to the tourists and travel lovers. Many people who visit the Polhena Beach in Matara come again and again to visit the beauty of nature in shape of this beautiful beach.